Narrator:
THE AMERICAN FAMILY.
IT'S SURE A LOT DIFFERENT
THAN IT USED TO BE.
I WOULDN'T SAY ANDY'S
THE MOST RESPONSIBLE FATHER,
BUT HE'S FINE.
Narrator:
TODAY, A LOOK
AT ONE MODERN FAMILY.
Woman:
THIS HOUSE THAT WE LIVE IN
WAS ANDY'S HOUSE,
AND THE BOYS
AND I FELT
A LITTLE BIT LIKE
WE WERE GUESTS.
I GET TO WATCH
A WRESTLING GAME KIND OF.
Narrator:
AND NEW INSIGHTS INTO WHAT
IT MEANS TO BE A STEPPARENT.
MY SORT OF RULE
OF THUMB, WHICH I GET
ENORMOUS HASSLE ABOUT,
IS, AS A STEPPARENT,
YOU CAN BE A GOOD HOST
AND FRIEND, AND THAT'S IT.
I THINK IT MAY BE
THAT YOU WISH SO MUCH
YOU COULD GET CLOSE...
Narrator:
"BRAZELTON ON PARENTING."
OVER THE LAST GENERATION,
OUR DEFINITION
OF THE WORD "FAMILY"
HAS CHANGED DRAMATICALLY.
SURE, THERE'S STILL
THE TRADITIONAL NOTION
OF MOM, DAD, AND THE KIDS,
BUT OUR HIGH RATE
OF DIVORCE, FOR ONE,
HAS TRANSFORMED THE STRUCTURE
OF THE FAMILY FOREVER.
TODAY, WE'RE GOING TO
EXPLORE THE NEW FAMILY
AND START BY LOOKING
THROUGH THE EYES OF PARENTS
WHO'VE DISCOVERED
NEW MEANING
TO THE PHRASE,
"HAPPILY EVER AFTER."
Brazelton:
A PORTRAIT OF OUR NEW FAMILY.
THIS IS WHERE THEY LIVE,
AND THIS IS
WHAT THEY LOOK LIKE.
JIMMY, AGE 12,
LILLY, 11,
BILLY, 9,
TWINS SUMMER
AND HANNAH, 8,
HATTIE, 2 1/2.
Boy:
YOU GUYS, DO YOU
WANT TO PLAY?
THERE'S NOT A DAY
GOES BY THAT ANDY AND I
DON'T SAY TO EACH OTHER,
"ARE WE THE LUCKIEST
PEOPLE IN THE WORLD?"
Brazelton:
NANCY AND ANDY,
BOTH DIVORCED,
ACTUALLY MET
THROUGH THEIR KIDS
ON A SKI TRIP.
Nancy: HE WAS PULLING OUT
RAW BROCCOLI FROM HIS
BACKPACK AT A SKI LODGE.
EVERYBODY WAS HAVING HOT
CHOCOLATE, AND HIS DAUGHTER'S
WERE EATING RAW BROCCOLI.
Andy:
THAT'S SORT OF
HOW WE MET.
( overlapping dialogue )
Brazelton:
THEIR FIRST DATE WAS,
WELL, UNUSUAL.
Nancy:
WE WENT ON OUR FIRST DATE,
AND HE ACTUALLY TOOK NOTES.
I'VE GOT THESE CUTE
LITTLE GIRLS,
AND I WANT TO MAKE
SURE THEY'RE GETTING
GOOD QUALITY CARE.
I WAS A PRETTY TOUGH
INTERVIEWER.
Brazelton:
IT WAS A LITTLE MORE
RELAXED FOR THE KIDS.
Nancy:
THEY'RE THE ONES WHO KNEW
EACH OTHER FROM SCHOOL.
IT WASN'T LIKE
THEY WERE STRANGERS.
Brazelton:
THINGS PROGRESSED QUICKLY.
Nancy:
WE KNEW WE WERE
GETTING MARRIED.
THE KIDS THOUGHT WE
WOULD GET MARRIED, TOO,
BUT THEY WOULD SAY,
"DON'T GET MARRIED."
THE BOYS WOULD SAY
"I DON'T LIKE THE GIRLS,"
AND THE GIRLS WOULD SAY,
"I DON'T LIKE THE BOYS."
Andy:
ONE MORNING, WE GOT THE TWO
OLDEST, LILLY AND JIMMY,
AND I JUST SAID,
"I'M GOING TO TELL
YOU TWO A SECRET.
DON'T TELL THE LITTLE ONES.
WE'RE GETTING MARRIED."
WE DIDN'T TELL THEM
WE WERE GOING TO DO IT
IN ABOUT 36 HOURS.
AND THE KIDS ALL THOUGHT
IT WAS A LOT OF FUN.
Brazelton:
AND ONCE THE DUST SETTLED?
Nancy:
WE HEAR SOME FRIENDS
TALK ABOUT
THAT STEPSIBLINGS DON'T
GET ALONG REAL WELL AND--
Andy:
THEY REALLY, YOU KNOW,
DO SEEM TO GET ALONG.
Nancy:
THEY DO, AND HERE WE HAVE
SOME NORMAL
SIBLING RELATIONSHIPS
WHERE IT'S REALLY
THE BOYS DO
MOST OF THE FIGHTING,
AND IT'S PRETTY MUCH
WITH EACH OTHER.
ONCE IN A WHILE,
THEY TEASE THE GIRLS,
BUT THE GIRLS WILL TEASE
THEM RIGHT BACK.
Andy: AND THEN THE BABY,
HATTIE, HAS REALLY BROUGHT
EVERYONE TOGETHER.
Nancy:
SHE IS A GREAT JOY.
I DIDN'T EXPECT
TO BE DOING THIS
AT 44 YEARS OLD.
HATTIE WAS BORN
JUST FOUR MONTHS EARLY.
SHE WAS ONLY
A POUND AND A HALF.
Nancy:
EVERYBODY JUST REALLY GATHERS
AROUND THIS LITTLE KID,
AND, YOU KNOW,
SHE'S AN INTEGRAL PART
OF EVERYBODY'S LIFE,
AND I THINK THAT SORT OF
MADE EVERYBODY FEEL CLOSER.
THE BOYS--
ONE OF THE NICER THINGS
FOR ME
WITH HAVING HATTIE
IS SEEING SUCH A DIFFERENT
SIDE TO THEM.
IT'S ALL OF A SUDDEN
A VERY GENTLE,
VERY NICE SIDE.
Andy:
THEY REFER TO EACH OTHER
AS BROTHERS AND SISTERS.
Nancy:
WE NEVER HEAR "STEPBROTHER"
OR "STEPSISTER."
IT'S ALWAYS "MY SISTER,"
"MY BROTHER."
AND, YOU KNOW,
THEY'LL TALK ABOUT,
YOU KNOW,
ANDY IS THE STEPFATHER
AND I'M THE STEPMOTHER,
BUT THEY TALK
ABOUT EACH OTHER
AS BROTHERS AND SISTERS.
Brazelton:
NANCY AND ANDY ARE
SENSITIVE STEPPARENTS.
ANYBODY CAN HAVE
A BOO-BOO.
Nancy:
TO ME, THE BIGGEST CHALLENGE
IS WALKING THAT LINE
WHERE YOU DON'T WANT TO
OVERSTEP YOUR BOUNDARIES,
YOU KNOW,
WITH DISCIPLINE.
WALK IT OFF.
YOU'RE DONE.
GOOD JOB, SUMMER.
Nancy:
FORTUNATELY, YOU KNOW,
WITH THE GIRLS,
THEY'RE
REALLY GOOD KIDS,
I DON'T NEED TO
DISCIPLINE THEM.
GOOD!  GOOD!
( laughs )
Nancy:
I DON'T WANT TO
PUSH MYSELF,
BECAUSE I KNOW
THEY HAVE A MOTHER.
I CHERISH ALL THOSE
MOMENTS WITH THEM.
I CAN BE A FRIEND
TO THEM, TOO.
I THINK IT'S MAYBE
NOT AS INTENSE
AS A MOTHER-DAUGHTER
RELATIONSHIP WOULD BE,
BUT, YOU KNOW,
I LOVE THEM
AND HOPE THAT
THEY LOVE ME.
Andy:
THE BOYS, THEY'VE GOT
A GREAT DAD.
I DON'T TAKE THE ACTIVE
ROLE WITH THE BOYS
AS A FATHER FIGURE.
I'M JUST A ROLE MODEL.
THEY SEE A GUY THAT
GETS UP EARLY,
WORKS HARD, WORKS LATE.
Nancy:
ON THE WEEKENDS,
WE'VE GOT TO DO THE CHORES
BEFORE WE CAN
GO OUT AND PLAY.
BUT WHEN WE PLAY,
WE PLAY.
Brazelton:
NOW HE'S GOT BOYS,
AND SHE'S GOT DAUGHTERS--
A DREAM, BUT CHAOS.
TRYING TO GET
FIVE LUNCHES READY,
WITH A BABY
IN THE BACKGROUND,
AND, YOU KNOW,
BREAKFAST IN THE MORNING,
AND MAKE SURE
WE HAVE FIVE FRUITS
AND VEGETABLES APIECE,
YOU KNOW, FOR--
THAT'S 35 PIECES
OF FRUIT A DAY.
THAT'S A LOT OF FRUIT.
COME ON, TROOPS.
WE'RE GOING FOR THE PICNIC.
LET'S ROLL.
WHOO!
Andy:
WE'RE GOING TO GET
EIGHT PEOPLE ON SEVEN BIKES,
AND WE'RE GONNA GO
FOR A THREE-MILE BIKE RIDE.
AND HOPEFULLY
THE SALAMI WON'T FALL
OUT OF THE KNAPSACK,
AND WE'RE LUCKY ENOUGH TO SAY
THAT'S THE CHALLENGE
THAT WE HAVE FOR THE DAY.
Brazelton:
THERE IT IS AGAIN--
THEY FEEL LUCKY.
Andy:
WE'RE THE KIND OF--
THE HALF-FULL GLASS.
Nancy:
WE BOTH LOOK AT THINGS
AS THE GLASS IS HALF-FULL.
I THINK IF I HAD STOPPED
TO THINK MAYBE ABOUT
ALL THE PROBLEMS,
THINGS THAT COULD HAPPEN,
MAYBE IT WOULD
HAVE GIVEN PAUSE,
BUT I DON'T THINK SO.
I MEAN,
THE JOY I HAVE,
BEING WITH HIM,
IS WORTH ANY TRIAL
AND TRIBULATION.
( singing )
Nancy:
I DON'T LOOK AT THEM
AS "MY BOYS"
AND THEN "HIS GIRLS."
I LOOK AT THEM
AS "OUR CHILDREN."
Brazelton:
IT ALL COMES TOGETHER
WHEN THEY ALL
COME TOGETHER.
SITTING AROUND
THE DINING ROOM TABLE
IS ONE OF MY FAVORITES--
WHEN WE'VE GOT
ALL THE KIDS THERE.
JUST WATCHING THEM
SO ANIMATED AND HAVING
A GOOD TIME,
AND SHARING THEIR DAY.
AND THEY'VE GOT,
YOU KNOW, SO MANY PEOPLE
THAT THEY CAN PICK
AND CHOOSE FROM,
WHO THEY WANT TO
SHARE SOMETHING WITH.
Nancy:
HERE WE GO...
Andy:
I JUST LOVE NANCY--
WHEN I COME HOME FROM WORK,
THAT THE MEALS
THAT SHE HAS PREPARED--
TO ME, THAT JUST
SAYS IT ALL.
AND I JUST LOVE
A BIG DINING ROOM TABLE
FILLED WITH... EVERYONE.
TO ME, THAT'S
THE NAME OF THE GAME.
JUST SHARING YOUR LIFE.
I'D BE VERY LONELY
IF I DIDN'T HAVE ANDY,
IF I DIDN'T HAVE
THE KIDS.
IT'S MY PLEASURE
TO INTRODUCE
THE DANCING
GRANT GIRLS.
LEADING THE WAY
IS SUMMER GRANT.
WOULD YOU PLEASE
COME UP, SUMMER GRANT?
FOLLOWED BY...
Brazelton:
WHAT MAKES THE NEW
FAMILY WORK?
- IT'S THE SAME OLD THING.
- I'LL TAKE BABY HATTIE GRANT.
Nancy:
I THINK OUR FAMILY IS SPECIAL
JUST BECAUSE WE'RE
JUST NUTS ABOUT EACH OTHER,
AND I THINK
THE KIDS SEE THAT,
AND HOPEFULLY--
YOU FEEL GUILTY
ABOUT DIVORCE ANYWAY,
AND YOU THINK,
"HAVE I RUINED THEIR LIVES?"
AND I HOPE THAT THEY
CAN SEE, YOU KNOW,
WHAT A TERRIFIC
MARRIAGE IS LIKE,
AND THAT I HOPE
WE'RE MODELING
WHAT LOVE IS.
HAPPILY EVER AFTER--
I USED TO THINK
OF IT AS AN IDEAL,
BUT NOW, TO ME,
IT'S JUST REALITY.
THIS IS
"HAPPILY EVER AFTER."
( cheering )
JOINING ME TODAY
IS CRYSTAL HOLMES,
OUR INTERNET EXPERT
FROM IBM.
CRYSTAL, IT'S ALMOST AS IF
WE WERE TRYING TO FIND
NEW WAYS TO BECOME
FAMILIES TODAY.
THERE ARE SO MANY
NONTRADITIONAL FAMILIES,
AND THEY NEED HELP.
THERE ARE GOOD RESOURCES
ON THE INTERNET
FOR MANY DIFFERENT TYPES
OF FAMILY SITUATIONS.
WE'RE GOING LOOK
AT ONE SITE TODAY
CALLED "THE STEPPARENTING
CONNECTION,"
AND THIS SITE PROVIDES
GOOD INFORMATION
FOR PARENTS WHO
ARE TRYING TO DEAL WITH
THE DIFFERENT ROLES
THAT THEY MAY PLAY
AS A STEPPARENT.
YOU CAN SEE THAT
THERE'S INFORMATION
LIKE SHARING WEDDING PLANS
WITH THE KIDS,
OR EVEN GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
STRONGER STEPFAMILIES.
THEY ALSO HAVE
A BULLETIN BOARD.
ON THIS BULLETIN BOARD,
YOU CAN ACTUALLY FIND
QUESTIONS THAT
HAVE BEEN ASKED
WITH INFORMATION THAT YOU
MAY FIND VALUABLE,
BASED UPON YOUR
PARTICULAR SITUATION.
SOME OF THE TOPICS INCLUDE
STEPPARENTING SUPPORT,
DEALING WITH THE EX,
OR EVEN BEING ENGAGED
AND TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
WHAT TO DO NEXT.
THERE ARE
ALSO OTHER SITES
THAT YOU CAN LINK TO
FROM THIS SITE.
ONE THAT WE'VE JUST CALLED UP
IS THE SINGLE PARENTS
ASSOCIATION.
ON THIS SITE, THEY HAVE A LOT
OF DIFFERENT INFORMATION
IN TERMS OF
AFFILIATE PROGRAMS,
CONTINUING EDUCATION
FOR SINGLE PARENTS,
EVEN PARENTING TIPS.
WITH ANY WEB SITE THAT
YOU GO TO, YOU NEED TO RESEARCH
THE SOURCE OF
THE INFORMATION
AND MAKE SURE
IT'S SOMETHING THAT
YOU'RE COMFORTABLE WITH.
OUR INTERNET
QUESTION TODAY
COMES FROM JENNY
IN KOHLER, WISCONSIN.
HER QUESTION READS,
"MY STEPSON IS SEVEN YEARS OLD
AND IS USED TO HIS FATHER'S
UNDIVIDED ATTENTION
WHEN HE VISITS US.
MY HUSBAND AND I RECENTLY
HAD A DAUGHTER OF OUR OWN,
AND WE ARE CONCERNED
ABOUT HOW HER ARRIVAL
WILL AFFECT
OUR FAMILY DYNAMICS.
HOW CAN WE MAKE
THE SEVEN-YEAR-OLD FEEL
A PART OF THE NEW FAMILY?"
WHAT A GREAT QUESTION.
IT SHOWS THE PASSION
THAT YOU HAVE, TO TRY TO
INCORPORATE THIS LITTLE BOY.
HE'LL FEEL THAT.
BUT YOU'VE GOT TO
RESPECT HIS FEELINGS
BECAUSE HE FEELS LIKE
HE'S LOST HIS FATHER.
HE HASN'T A PLACE
IN THE FAMILY ANYMORE,
AND IT'S GOING
TO TAKE TIME.
BUT YOU KNOW WHAT I'D DO?
I'D USE THE BABY
AS YOUR LINE
OF COMMUNICATION.
BABIES ARE JUST
SO EXCITING
FOR SOMEBODY WHO
CAN UNDERSTAND THEM.
THIS LITTLE BOY MIGHT LEARN
HOW TO DIAPER THE BABY,
FEED THE BABY,
WATCH THE BABY
LEARN TO DEVELOP.
AND IF HE DOES,
HE'LL FEEL LIKE PART
OF THE FAMILY.
BABIES ARE MAGICAL.
Brazelton:
FOR MORE RESOURCES,
VISIT US ONLINE AT:
RAZELTON ON PARENTING,"
PRESENTED BY THE PARENTING
INSTITUTE AT pampers.com.
OVER HALF THE CHILDREN
IN THE U.S.
ARE LIVING
IN STEPFAMILIES TODAY.
WITH ME TODAY IS
DR. JOY BROWNE,
PSYCHOLOGIST, AUTHOR,
HOST OF HER OWN RADIO
AND TELEVISION SHOW,
AND SHE TALKS
TO LOTS OF PARENTS.
JOY, WHAT'S IT LIKE
TO BE A STEPPARENT?
WELL, I'M NOT
A STEPPARENT,
BUT I'M A PSYCHOLOGIST
WHO DEALS WITH THIS A LOT,
AS YOU POINT OUT,
STATISTICALLY.
MY SORT OF RULE OF THUMB,
WHICH I GET ENORMOUS
HASSLE ABOUT,
IS, AS A STEPPARENT,
YOU CAN BE A GOOD HOST
AND FRIEND, AND THAT'S IT.
THINK ABOUT THE THINGS
YOU REMEMBER MOST
FROM YOUR CHILDHOOD.
IT WAS NOT YOUR PARENT
BEING A WARDEN
OR A DISCIPLINARIAN.
IT WAS GUIDING YOU,
SPENDING TIME WITH YOU,
BEING A FRIEND TO YOU.
I'M NOT CERTAINLY
SUGGESTING THAT PARENTS
SHOULDN'T TAKE
RESPONSIBILITY
FOR SETTING STRUCTURE,
BUT THE DISCIPLINARY
FUNCTION OF PARENT
HAS TO BE WITH
THE BIOLOGICAL PARENT,
NOT WITH THE STEPPARENT,
BECAUSE, OTHERWISE,
THE CHILD WILL SAY,
QUITE LEGITIMATELY,
"YOU'RE NOT MY PARENT."
WELL, YOUR BRINGING UP
THE ISSUE OF DISCIPLINE
IS THE PROBLEM,
AND, YET, I THINK IT MAY BE
THAT YOU WISH SO MUCH
YOU COULD GET CLOSE
TO THAT STEPCHILD
AND GIVE 'EM WHAT YOU
FEEL LIKE THEY'VE LOST
WHEN THEIR
REAL PARENT LEFT.
- WHAT YOU VALUE
IS THE TIME SPENT.
- SURE.
YOU, AS A STEPPARENT, CAN
SPEND TIME WITH THAT CHILD
WITHOUT SAYING:
"HAVE YOU DONE
YOUR HOMEWORK?"
"FINISH YOUR MEAL,"
"DON'T TALK TO
YOUR MOTHER THAT WAY,"
"DON'T HIT YOUR
BROTHER OR SISTER."
AGAIN, I THINK
MOST OF US--
AND I WOULD CERTAINLY
INCLUDE MYSELF IN THIS--
CONFUSE THE ROLE
OF PARENT WITH THAT OF
THE ONE WHO HAS
TO TELL A CHILD
WHEN THEY'RE
DOING SOMETHING WRONG,
ALMOST EXCLUSIVELY.
IT SEEMS TO ME THAT
WHEN THEY'RE DOING
SOMETHING RIGHT
IS WHEN IT
REALLY MATTERS.
AND I'LL BET THE STEPPARENT
IS ALWAYS FEELING
A COMPETITIVE FEELING
FOR THAT PARENT
THAT'S ABSENT,
AND THE SORT OF GATEKEEPING--
"I'VE GOT TO BE BETTER
THAN THAT PERSON."
WITH ALL DUE RESPECT,
I THINK THAT'S A VERY
MALE POINT OF VIEW.
I THINK THAT'S SORT OF
A COMPETITIVE THING,
IF I SOMEHOW HAVE TO
COMPETE WITH THIS PERSON
WHO'S NOT HERE.
IT'S NOT COMPETING FOR
THE CHILD'S ATTENTION.
IT'S COMPETING FOR
THE MOTHER'S ATTENTION--
"HEY, AM I
A BETTER HUSBAND?"
I THINK YOU'RE RIGHT.
IT EXISTS, BUT IT'S
MISDIRECTED, IT'S PROJECTED.
I WONDER IF THERE ISN'T,
IN THE BACK OF EVERY
STEPPARENT'S MIND,
"I'M NOT THIS CHILD'S
REAL PARENT.
I CAN'T REALLY KNOW HER."
IF I HAD A NICKEL
FOR EVERY PARENT WHO SAID,
"MY KID TELLS ME EVERYTHING,"
AND THE KID SAYS,
"I DON'T TELL
MY PARENTS ANYTHING--"
I THINK THAT NOTION
OF CLOSENESS
AND INTIMACY
IS SOMEWHAT OF AN ILLUSION
ON THE PARENT'S PART.
THEREFORE, WE FEEL THAT
THEY'RE A REFLECTION ON US,
WHICH THEY ARE NOT.
THEY'RE A REFLECTION
ON THEMSELVES.
IT'S A MUCH MORE LIMITED
AND MUCH MORE PERVASIVE ROLE
THAN WE THINK
OF IT AS BEING.
TO BE A GOOD PARENT IS
NOT TO FORM THAT CHILD.
IT'S TO NURTURE THAT CHILD,
TO LOVE THAT CHILD,
TO HELP THAT CHILD
FIGURE OUT WHO THEY ARE.
SO THE ROLE OF STEPPARENT,
WHEN WE GET THAT DEFINITION,
BECOMES VERY EASY
BECAUSE THE ROLE IS
TO MAKE THAT CHILD FEEL
WELCOME, WHICH IS A GOOD
HOSTESS OR GOOD HOST,
AND TO FEEL VALUABLE,
WHICH IS A GOOD FRIEND.
BUT STILL,
PARENTS SAY TO ME,
"I WANT TO LOVE
HER AS MUCH
AS I DO
MY OWN CHILDREN."
THAT DRIVES ME CRAZY,
LIKE SOMEHOW YOU COULD
MEASURE LOVE ON A SCALE.
WE DON'T LOVE
OUR CHILDREN THE SAME.
TWO CHILDREN THE SAME.
WE MAY LOVE THEM
THE SAME, WHATEVER
THAT MESSY WORD MEANS.
WE DON'T FEEL THE SAME
ABOUT OUR BOY CHILDREN
AND OUR GIRL CHILDREN.
WE DON'T FEEL THE SAME
WAY ABOUT OUR OLDEST
AND OUR YOUNGEST.
WHY SHOULD WE
FEEL THE SAME ABOUT
ANY TWO HUMAN BEINGS?
I THINK THAT'S
A MISTAKEN NOTION.
WE GET VERY GOOEY
WITH THAT "L" WORD.
IN OTHER WORDS,
YOU'RE SAYING,
"DON'T TRY SO HARD
TO BE THE SAME
WITH YOUR OWN CHILDREN
AND STEPCHILDREN."
I'M SAYING BE THE BEST
PERSON YOU CAN BE
TO EVERYBODY YOU RUN INTO,
INCLUDING THOSE
IN YOUR HOUSEHOLD.
THAT'S VERY FEMALE.
- WELL, THAT'S BECAUSE
IT'S BRILLIANT.
- I SEE.
Brazelton:
NEXT, WE TALK TO PARENTS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
Woman:
WE'VE SOLD OUT.
WE HAVE OVER 900 PEOPLE...
Brazelton:
EACH YEAR, WE TRAVEL
ALL OVER AMERICA...
Man:
OUR COMMUNITY IS
SO EXCITED ABOUT THIS.
Brazelton:
...TO ANSWER QUESTIONS
FROM THOUSANDS OF PARENTS.
Man:
I'D LIKE TO WELCOME
DR. T. BERRY BRAZELTON.
Brazelton:
HERE ARE SOME OF THEM.
MY NAME IS JANET.
I'M A SINGLE MOM
OF A FIVE-YEAR-OLD BOY.
I'M BASICALLY
HIS ONLY CAREGIVER.
SO IT'S VERY STRESSFUL.
HE GOES THROUGH
DIFFERENT PHASES.
HE'S GOING THROUGH
THAT PHASE AGAIN
WHERE ON THE WAY OUT
THE DOOR, RUNNING LATE,
HE ACTS UP,
AND I DON'T FOLLOW THROUGH
WITH DISCIPLINE BECAUSE
WE'RE GOING TO MISS THE BUS.
AND WE'RE IN THE SUPERMARKET
AND IT'S THE END OF THE DAY.
HE'S TIRED AND HUNGRY.
I DON'T WANT TO LEAVE
THE FOOD THERE
AND GO THROUGH IT
ALL OVER THE NEXT DAY.
SO I END UP--
I DON'T HAVE OTHER OPTIONS.
SO IT'S VERY DIFFICULT
FOR ME
TO DO WHAT
NEEDS TO BE DONE
AND TO TAKE CARE OF HIM
THE WAY I USED TO
WHEN I WAS HOME WITH HIM
FOR HIS FIRST 3 1/2 YEARS.
NOW, WORKING
AND DOING IT ON MY OWN,
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT,
AND I DON'T WANT
TO SHORTCHANGE HIM,
AND I DON'T WANT TO TEAR
ALL OF MY HAIR OUT EITHER.
I HEAR THIS A LOT
FROM WORKING PARENTS--
THAT IT'S SO HARD TO GO HOME
AT THE END OF THE DAY
AND BE DISCIPLINARIAN.
YOU'VE BEEN AWAY
ALL DAY LONG.
YOU'VE MISSED THEM.
THEY'VE MISSED YOU.
AND THAT, OF COURSE, IS
WHEN THEY ALWAYS ACT UP.
EVERY ONE YOU DESCRIBED
WERE TRANSITIONAL TIMES,
WHEN YOU WERE BOTH UNDER
A CERTAIN KIND OF STRESS
AND YOU HAD TO
GET THINGS DONE.
I PREFER TO HAVE HIM
HOME EARLIER, BUT I
TAKE HIM WITH ME.
I HAVEN'T FIGURED OUT
THE SECRET ANSWER.
WELL, I THINK
YOU'RE STRUGGLING WITH
SOMETHING IN YOURSELF.
- HAVE YOU THOUGHT OF THAT?
- I'M SURE I AM,
BECAUSE I THINK A LOT
OF THE STRESS HE HAS
IS DIRECTLY
GENERATED FROM ME.
WELL, I THINK YOU
BETTER THINK ABOUT
YOUR OWN SIDE
OF IT FIRST,
AND FIGURE OUT WHAT IT
MEANS TO YOU TO BE ALONE.
AND THEN PULL YOURSELF BACK
AND LOOK AT WHAT'S
HAPPENING TO HIM,
'CAUSE I THINK
HE PROBABLY IS ASKING
FOR SOME DISCIPLINE,
BUT HE PROBABLY IS ASKING
EVEN MORE FOR YOU ALL
TO GET CLOSE AGAIN.
WHAT I WOULD DO
FIRST IS GO HOME
AND SIT AND ROCK
AND GET CLOSE AGAIN,
AND THEN SAY,
"NOW LET'S GO TO THE STORE,
AND YOU CAN HELP ME
PICK THINGS OUT."
I'M SURE YOU
DO THAALREADY.
I ALWAYS SAY EVERYBODY
WHO IS AWAY ALL DAY
OUGHT TO HAVE A GREAT
BIG ROCKING CHAIR.
WHEN YOU COME IN
THE FRONT DOOR, YOU KNOW
HE'S GOING TO FALL APART.
SO SIT DOWN
IN A BIG ROCKING
CHAIR AND JUST ROCK
AND SAY,
"HOW WAS YOUR DAY?"
AND HE'LL SAY, "EHH!"
AND YOU SAY, "MINE WAS, TOO.
I'VE MISSED YOU
ALL DAY LONG."
WHEN HE FINALLY
RELAXES IN YOUR ARMS,
THEN TAKE HIM
TO DO THE THINGS.
OKAY.  THANK YOU.
( audience applauding )
WE'RE AN ADOPTIVE FAMILY.
MY HUSBAND
AND I ADOPTED
A 10-MONTH-OLD BABY
FROM CHINA.
NOW SHE'S THREE,
AND SHE'S HEALTHY,
AND SHE'S BRIGHT,
AND SHE'S JUST
A WONDERFUL CHILD.
MY QUESTION
TO YOU TODAY IS,
WHEN AND HOW DO
I BEGIN TO TELL HER
ABOUT HER--
THE ADOPTIVE PROCESS?
TO THIS DATE, SHE KNOWS
WHAT WE'VE DONE IS--
SHE KNOWS
SHE'S FROM CHINA,
AND DADDY'S FROM BOSTON
AND MOMMY'S FROM NEW YORK.
AND THAT'S WHAT SHE
KIND OF UNDERSTANDS--
THAT WE'RE FROM
DIFFERENT PLACES.
AND I DO THE SIMILARITIES
AND DIFFERENCES
THING WITH HER,
WITH HAIR AND EYES
AND THINGS LIKE THAT.
SO YOU'RE ALREADY
TELLING HER.
YEAH, I'VE STARTED
TO TELL HER A LITTLE BIT,
BUT I WONDER, YOU KNOW,
WHAT POINT DO I BEGIN TO...
MAKE IT A FORMAL
SORT OF...
I DON'T THINK YOU
EVER NOT TELL HER.
YOU'VE ALREADY LAID
THE GROUNDWORK.
SOONER OR LATER,
IT'LL COME UP--
"AM I ADOPTED?"
"YEAH."
IT'LL PROBABLY COME UP
AT FOUR AND FIVE
WHEN OTHER KIDS
TEASE HER 'CAUSE SHE
DOESN'T LOOK LIKE YOU.
AND SHE'S GONNA COME
HOME RUSHING TO YOU,
SAYING, "WHY DON'T I
LOOK LIKE YOU?"
AND THEN YOU SAY,
"WELL, YOU KNOW,
BECAUSE YOU WERE ADOPTED.
REMEMBER?
WE TALKED ABOUT THIS."
- AND IT'S THAT YOU
NEVER DON'T TELL HER.
- MM-HMM.
YOU KNOW, THIS
IS THE TROUBLE
WITH BEING
AN ADOPTIVE PARENT.
YOU ARE VULNERABLE.
YOU'D LIKE TO PROTECT THEM
FROM THE FACT THAT
THEY'RE DIFFERENT
FROM KIDS WHO HAD
THEIR OWN PARENTS.
IS THAT RIGHT?
YES, OF COURSE.
ANY PARENT, I GUESS,
WANTS TO PROTECT
THEIR CHILD.
YOU SAID SOMETHING
VERY INTERESTING.
YOU WANTED TO MAKE
THE DIFFERENCES IMPORTANT,
AND THAT'S TRUE,
BUT IT'S NOT
GOING TO WORK.
SHE'S STILL GOING TO COME
TO YOU FOR BEING TEASED,
FOR BEING DIFFERENT.
WHAT YOU HAVE TO DO
IS HAVE HANDLED
YOUR OWN FEELINGS
SO WHEN SHE
COMES TO YOU,
YOU'RE READY
TO HELP HER WITH HERS.
AND IT'S BOUND TO HAPPEN.
ONE THING I'D LIKE
TO URGE YOU TO DO
IS LET HER KNOW
SOME CHINESE ADULTS
SO SHE CAN IDENTIFY
WITH THEM.
IT ISN'T THAT THEY'LL
TAKE HER AWAY FROM YOU
OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT,
BUT IT'LL GIVE HER
SOME IDEA
OF WHAT SHE MIGHT BE
WHEN SHE GROWS UP,
AND A CHILD NEEDS
TO KNOW THAT.
WELL, THAT'S A GREAT IDEA.
THANK YOU.
GREAT.
Brazelton:
FOR TAPES AND TRANSCRIPTS,
CALL:
OR LOG ON AT:
Announcer:
"BRAZELTON ON PARENTING,"
PRESENTED BY THE PARENTING
INSTITUTE AT pampers.com.
ALTHOUGH FAMILIES TODAY
COME IN MANY MORE FLAVORS
THAN WE'VE EVER SEEN,
I THINK THE BASIC
INGREDIENTS FOR SUCCESS
REMAIN THE SAME.
IN A GOOD FAMILY,
THERE'S MUTUAL RESPECT,
AND THAT MEANS RESPECT
FOR THE CHILDREN, TOO,
FOR THEIR NEEDS,
FOR THEIR UNIQUENESS,
FOR THE SPECIAL SPIRIT
THAT LETS US SEE THE WORLD
AS ONLY A CHILD CAN SEE.
( theme music playing )